docs: add CLI docs under tools content bucket (#1097)
asyncapi/website: pages/docs/tools/asyncapi-cli.md

---
title: AsyncAPI CLI
weight: 1
---

> 

Reviewer: I should have noted this clearly earlier... Let's add a Header & section for `Introduction`. We shouldn't go directly to installation instructions without introducing the tool.

Your paragraph introducing the tool could say something like this:
`Download the AsyncAPI CLI to work with your AsyncAPI documents. You can use the CLI to validate AsyncAPI  documents, use the Generator tool, and even for creating new AsyncAPI documents.`

Reviewer: Hey @activus-d, make sure to actually add the HEADER for the **Introduction** section. 

I see you added some copy but we are missing the header for that section.

Author: @alequetzalli I have updated the branch to include the header `Introduction`.

> ## Install CLI Using NPM and Node

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installation
```

Headers need to be succinct. You should have **installation** as the header by itself. Please follow the outline structure I provided in the issue for this :) 

<img width="300" alt="Screen Shot 2022-11-11 at 4 35 33 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19964402/201447798-2cee31da-112c-4812-8727-8758242a5309.png">

> To use the AsynAPI CLI tool, you must have Node.js version 10 or higher and NPM installed on your PC. To check if you already have both installed, run the following commands in your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the AsynAPI CLI tool, you must install NPM and a Node.js version 10 or higher. To check if you already have both installed, run the following commands in your terminal:
```

```sh
# check if node is installed
node -v
# or
node --version

# check if NPM is installed
npm -v
# or
npm --version
```

> If you don’t have Node.js or NPM installed, [install both with this package manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you don’t have Node.js or NPM installed, you can install both with this [Node.js package manager](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/).
```

> After installing Node.js and NPM, run the following command to install the AsyncAPI CLI globally on your PC:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After installing Node.js and NPM, run the following command to install the AsyncAPI CLI globally:
```

You should not use the word PC in exchange for computer/machine/local environment. Not everyone has a PC, so it's incorrect to use that term.

```sh
npm install -g @asyncapi/cli
```

> ## Install CLI on MacOS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Mac
```

I don't think we should use the OS; let's go with simply `Windows`, `Linux`, and `Mac`.

> There are two ways to install the AsyncAPI CLI on your MacOS:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two ways to install the AsyncAPI CLI on your macOS: using the `brew` package manager or `pkg` files.
```

You should not leave a fragment dangling before you start a new header/sub-section. Always write complete sentences.

> ### Using `brew`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `brew` installation
```

> To install the AsyncAPI CLI using `brew` package manager, run the following commands in your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install the AsyncAPI CLI using the `brew` package manager, run the following commands in your terminal:
```

```sh
# Install brew
/bin/bash -c "$(curl -fsSL https://raw.githubusercontent.com/Homebrew/install/HEAD/install.sh)"

# Install AsyncAPI CLI
brew install asyncapi
```

> ### Using `pkg`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### `pkg` installation
```

> Every release of the AsyncAPI CLI has its own MacOS dedicated `pkg` file that enables you to install the CLI tool as a MacOS application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every release of the AsyncAPI CLI has its macOS dedicated `pkg` file that enables you to install the CLI tool as a macOS application. 
```

FYI that the word `macOS` is not capitalized 😉

> To download the latest release of the CLI, run this command in your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To download the latest CLI release, run this command in your terminal:
```

```sh
curl -OL https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases/latest/download/asyncapi.pkg
```

> To download a specific release of the CLI, run this command in your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To download a specific CLI release, run this command in your terminal:
```

```sh
curl -OL https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases/download/<replace this with the specific CLI version e.g v0.13.0>/asyncapi.pkg
```

> All AsynAPI CLI releases are listed [here](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Remember>
Follow <a href="https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases">AsynAPI CLI releases</a>.
</Remember>
```
(1) This looks like perfect content for a `Remember` component, so adding one.

(2) For **accessibility**, you should never write anchor text that doesn't tell the user where a link will take them. (Source: [WACAG](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20-TECHS/H30.html))

IOW, you should not write anchor text such as:
- read more
- here
- click here
- this
- etc.

> After downloading the Async CLI, you can install it by running this in your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After downloading the AsyncAPI CLI, install it via the following command:
```

```sh
sudo installer -pkg asyncapi.pkg -target /
```

> ## Install CLI on Linux

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Linux
```

> The mode of installing AsyncAPI CLI tool on your Linux operating system depends on the Linux distro you are using.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selecting the appropriate AsyncAPI CLI installation method on a Linux operating system depends on your Linux distro.
```

> ### Debian Based Distros

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Debian based distros
```
We observe sentence capitalization in our Docs' headers.

> For Debian based distros, you can install the AsycAPI CLI using the `dpkg` package manager for Debian.
> To download the latest release of the CLI, run this command in your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For Debian based distros, you can install the AsycAPI CLI using the `dpkg` package manager for Debian.
```

```sh
curl -OL https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases/latest/download/asyncapi.deb
```

To download a specific release of the CLI, run this command in your terminal:
```sh
curl -OL https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases/download/<replace this with the specific CLI version e.g v0.13.0>/asyncapi.deb
```

> All AsynAPI CLI releases are listed [here](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

We already mentioned this above; watch out and remember not to repeat content. 👍

> ### Other Distros

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Other distros
```

> For other Linux distros, you can install the AsyncAPI CLI using the archive `tar.gz` file. To download the latest release of the CLI, run this command in your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install the AsyncAPI CLI for other Linux distros using the archive `tar.gz` file. To download the latest release of the CLI, run this command in your terminal:
```

```sh
curl -OL https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases/latest/download/asyncapi.tar.gz
```

To download a specific release of the CLI, run this command in your terminal:
```sh
curl -OL https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases/download/<replace this with the specific CLI version e.g v0.13.0>/asyncapi.tar.gz
```

> All releases of the CLI archived files are listed [here](https://github.com/asyncapi/cli/releases).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Do not repeat content.

Once you have downloaded the archived file, untar it by running this command in your terminal:
```sh
tar -xzf asyncapi.tar.gz
```

> The step above will create an `AsynAPI` directory in the current path. To run the CLI from anywhere, you will have to create a `symlink`. If the current path you are on is `/user/local/bin` for example, you will have to create the `symlink` in the `/user/local/bin` directory by following these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The step above will create an `AsynAPI` directory in the current path. To run the CLI from anywhere, you must create a `symlink`. If the current path you are on is `/user/local/bin`, for example, you must create the `symlink` in the `/user/local/bin` directory by following these steps:
```

```sh
# cd into the unarchived directory
cd asyncapi

# get the absolute path
pwd

# Create a symlink
ln -s <absolute-path>/bin/asyncapi /user/local/bin/asyncapi

# The "asyncapi" command should be available to be used
asyncapi
```

## Usage

> AsyncAPI CLI makes it easier to work with AsyncAPI files. There is a well-documented help command for the CLI if you need one. To get help, run this command in your terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI CLI makes it easier to work with AsyncAPI documents. 

To get **help**, run this command in your terminal:
```

We're moving away from saying AsyncAPI `files`; let's make sure to use AsyncAPI **documents** instead.

```sh
asyncapi --help
```

It should print something like this:
```sh
All in one CLI for all AsyncAPI tools

USAGE
  $ asyncapi [COMMAND]

COMMANDS
  config    access configs
  diff      find diff between two AsyncAPI files
  new       creates a new AsyncAPI file
  start     starts a new local instance of Studio
  validate  validate an AsyncAPI file
  generate    generate all kinds of stuff
    models       generate all the typed models for the message payloads defined in the AsyncAPI file
      typescript    generate the models for TypeScript
      csharp        generate the models for C#
      golang        generate the models for Go
      java          generate the models for Java
      javascript    generate the models for JavaScript
      dart          generate the models for Dart
    fromTemplate    generate whatever you want using templates compatible with AsyncAPI Generator 

> ```

Reviewer: To start, we need to make sure we add Next/Prev buttons to each new Docs page we add. 

<img width="400" alt="Screen Shot 2022-11-11 at 4 23 33 PM" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/19964402/201447237-f7666d12-16ff-42a0-b35c-06c44825d402.png">

In this case, since there are no other Tools docs yet, your buttons should point to the `Tools` **Overview** page and the next content bucket `Guides` **Overview** page.

The [markup for your buttons will be similar to the following example](https://github.com/asyncapi/website/blob/master/pages/docs/tutorials/streetlights.md):
```
<DocsButton
  suggestions={[
    {
      href: '/docs/tutorials/streetlights-interactive',
      title: 'Streetlights - Interactive (Alpha)',
      type:'back',
    },
    {
      href: '/docs/tools',
      title: 'Tools - Overview',
      type:'next',
    }
  ]}
/>
```

---
title: AsyncAPI CLI
weight: 1
---

# Introduction

> The AsyncAPI CLI is one of the tools you will need to work with your AsyncAPI documents. You can use the CLI to validate AsyncAPI documents, use the Generator tool, and even for creating new AsyncAPI documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The AsyncAPI CLI is a tool you can use to work with your AsyncAPI documents. You can use the CLI to validate AsyncAPI documents, use the Generator tool, and even create new AsyncAPI documents.
```

> ## Installation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Installation Guide
```
